Overview:
You are assisting in implementing a maintainable PyQt6-based GUI for RosterPlanner, a match planning program for roster management.
The focus is on maintainability: Write clean, modular code with clear separation of concerns (e.g., use MVC patterns where appropriate: views, viewmodels, models/repositories).
Follow PEP 8 style guidelines, use type hints (from typing import ...), and include docstrings for all classes, methods, and functions.
Structure the project with a dedicated GUI package (e.g., gui/app, gui/views, gui/viewmodels, gui/components, gui/services) as outlined in Milestone 1.1.
Prioritize testability: For each new feature or component, add unit tests (using unittest or pytest) for core logic, and consider integration tests for GUI elements where feasible.
Use dependency injection or service locators for loose coupling (reference Milestone 1.4).
Handle errors gracefully with logging and user-friendly messages.
Incorporate version control best practices: Commit small, atomic changes with descriptive messages.
Document architectural decisions inline or in separate ADR files as per Milestone 14.6.
Ensure scalability: Design for future extensions like plugins (Milestone 12) and performance optimizations (Milestone P).
Reuse existing implemented baseline features (e.g., modular scraping pipeline, TrackingState) without duplication.

Implementation Roadmap:
Read the full TODO list from "roadmaps/implementation_GUI.txt". Tasks marked [x] are already implemented—build upon them.
Proceed sequentially: Start with the next unfinished task in the current milestone (beginning with Milestone 0), then move to sub-tasks or the next milestone. Handle cross-cutting sections (e.g., Research, Documentation, Performance) when they become relevant or unblocked.
For the current task:Identify the next unfinished task by scanning the file from top to bottom.
If it's blocked ([>]), suggest how to unblock it or an alternative path.
When faced with decisions or options (e.g., choice of libraries, approaches), autonomously choose the most straightforward, maintainable option that aligns with guidelines (prefer minimal dependencies, Qt-native where possible, high performance), and explain your choice briefly in the response. Do not ask for user input unless the task is explicitly marked [!] (requires user decision).
Implement in small, testable chunks: Suggest code for one logical step at a time (e.g., define a class, then add methods, then tests).
For research tasks ([R]), provide a short spike (e.g., code experiment or analysis) and recommend a decision.
For documentation tasks ([D]), suggest the content or file updates.
For testing tasks ([T]), suggest the test code.
After suggesting implementation for a task (or chunk), include:An updated snippet of the roadmap with the task marked [x] (or [~] if partial), so I can copy-paste it back into "roadmaps/implementation_GUI.txt".
A professional commit message (e.g., "feat: implement design tokens for color roles") to append to ".pending-commits.txt".

Instead of suggesting changes and asking for approval to apply them, always just apply the changes.

After implementing a new feature add tests for it and run them to assure there is no regression.

Now, read "roadmaps/implementation_GUI.txt", identify the next unfinished task, and proceed with implementation suggestions.



### Refactor File

Task

You are an expert Python developer tasked with refactoring a large, monolithic Python file named "src\gui\views\ingestion_lab_panel.py" to improve maintainability. The goal is to split the code into as many smaller, logical files as possible while preserving all functionality. Each new file should focus on a single responsibility (e.g., one for utilities, one for data models, one for main logic).

Steps to Follow

1. Analyze the Code: Review the entire contents of the file. 

Identify distinct sections such as: Imports, Constants and global variables, Classes (group related classes together if they form a module)
Functions (group by purpose, e.g., utility functions, data processing functions), main execution logic or entry points (e.g., if name == "main") ,any scripts, tests, or helpers

2. Plan the Split:

Propose a directory structure if needed (e.g., create a package folder like "example_package/" with init.py). Suggest meaningful file names for each split (e.g., utils.py, models.py, main.py). Aim for maximal splitting: Break into as many files as makes sense without over-fragmenting (e.g., one class per file if large, or group small related functions). Ensure no circular imports; resolve dependencies logically.

3. Refactor the Code:

Extract code sections into new files. Update imports in all files to reference the new modules (use relative imports if in a package). Move the main entry point to a dedicated file (e.g., main.py or run.py). Add docstrings, type hints, and comments where missing to improve readability. Handle any global state carefully (e.g., config files or shared variables).

4. Verify Integrity:

Ensure the refactored code runs identically to the original (no behavior changes). Suggest how to test: Run the original vs. new version with sample inputs. If errors arise (e.g., missing imports), fix them inline.

5. Output Format:

List all new files with their full code. For each file: Start with python filename.py followed by the code, ending with ```. If creating a package, include init.py and explain setup.






pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File .\scripts\run_gui.ps1

